README.md, before:

# healthy_vs_rotten
## Project Description

### Goal
The objective of the machine-learning model is to be capable of classifying fruits as healthy or rotten based on image data. 
The main goal of the project is to implement the model together with the technologies, frameworks and theories learned throughout the course.

### Framework
We are going to be using hugging face transformers as our third-party package. 
The framework contains pre-trained models for classification, etc, which we are going to apply in the project. 

### Dataset
The dataset is found on Kaggle and only consists of one dataset so we will have to split it into a train and test set. (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/muhammad0subhan/fruit-and-vegetable-disease-healthy-vs-rotten/data)
The dataset consists of 28 different classes of 14 different fruits and vegetables. For each fruit and vegetable, there are two classes: healthy and rotten.
There is around 29300 images of both rotten and healthy of the 14 fruit and vegetables. The dataset takes up around 5 GB of memory.

### Models
We are utilizing the Hugging Face framework to obtain a pre-trained model for our project. 
The model we are going to use is called the resnet-50 model(https://huggingface.co/microsoft/resnet-50). ResNet-50, a widely used convolutional neural network, is well-suited for image classification tasks due to its deep residual learning architecture. This model will be fine-tuned on our dataset to ensure optimal performance for the binary classification task.
By utilising the hugging face framework we can fast and efficiently implement a model thereby allowing more time on the DevOps part of the project. 
Hopefully, by creating a well-implemented project we can easily evaluate and compare other models from hugging face for our problem also. 

## Project structure

The directory structure of the project looks like this:
```txt
├── .github/                  # Github actions and dependabot
│   ├── dependabot.yaml
│   └── workflows/
│       └── tests.yaml
├── configs/                  # Configuration files
├── data/                     # Data directory
│   ├── processed
│   └── raw
├── dockerfiles/              # Dockerfiles
│   ├── api.Dockerfile
│   └── train.Dockerfile
├── docs/                     # Documentation
│   ├── mkdocs.yml
│   └── source/
│       └── index.md
├── models/                   # Trained models
├── notebooks/                # Jupyter notebooks
├── reports/                  # Reports
│   └── figures/
├── src/                      # Source code
│   ├── project_name/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── api.py
│   │   ├── data.py
│   │   ├── evaluate.py
│   │   ├── models.py
│   │   ├── train.py
│   │   └── visualize.py
└── tests/                    # Tests
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── test_api.py
│   ├── test_data.py
│   └── test_model.py
├── .gitignore
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml
├── LICENSE
├── pyproject.toml            # Python project file
├── README.md                 # Project README
├── requirements.txt          # Project requirements
├── requirements_dev.txt      # Development requirements
└── tasks.py                  # Project tasks
```


Created using [mlops_template](https://github.com/SkafteNicki/mlops_template),
a [cookiecutter template](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter) for getting
started with Machine Learning Operations (MLOps).

Commit message:

Set up download for raw data

README.md, after:

# healthy_vs_rotten
## Project Description

### Goal
The objective of the machine-learning model is to be capable of classifying fruits as healthy or rotten based on image data. 
The main goal of the project is to implement the model together with the technologies, frameworks and theories learned throughout the course.

### Framework
We are going to be using hugging face transformers as our third-party package. 
The framework contains pre-trained models for classification, etc, which we are going to apply in the project. 

### Dataset
The dataset is found on Kaggle and only consists of one dataset so we will have to split it into a train and test set. (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/muhammad0subhan/fruit-and-vegetable-disease-healthy-vs-rotten/data)
The dataset consists of 28 different classes of 14 different fruits and vegetables. For each fruit and vegetable, there are two classes: healthy and rotten.
There is around 29300 images of both rotten and healthy of the 14 fruit and vegetables. The dataset takes up around 5 GB of memory.

### Models
We are utilizing the Hugging Face framework to obtain a pre-trained model for our project. 
The model we are going to use is called the resnet-50 model(https://huggingface.co/microsoft/resnet-50). ResNet-50, a widely used convolutional neural network, is well-suited for image classification tasks due to its deep residual learning architecture. This model will be fine-tuned on our dataset to ensure optimal performance for the binary classification task.
By utilising the hugging face framework we can fast and efficiently implement a model thereby allowing more time on the DevOps part of the project. 
Hopefully, by creating a well-implemented project we can easily evaluate and compare other models from hugging face for our problem also.


# Dataset Setup

This project uses the [Fruits and Vegetables Disease Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/muhammad0subhan/fruit-and-vegetable-disease-healthy-vs-rotten) from Kaggle.

## Download Instructions (Windows)

1. Install requirements:
   ```powershell
   pip install kaggle
   ```

2. Set up Kaggle credentials (unsure whether this is necessary):
   - Create a Kaggle account if you don't have one
   - Go to kaggle.com/account
   - Click "Create New API Token" in the API section
   - Move the downloaded `kaggle.json` to your `.kaggle` folder:
     ```powershell
     New-Item -Path "$env:USERPROFILE\.kaggle" -ItemType Directory -Force
     Move-Item -Path "$env:USERPROFILE\Downloads\kaggle.json" -Destination "$env:USERPROFILE\.kaggle\kaggle.json"
     ```

3. Run the download script:
   ```powershell
   python download_dataset.py
   ```

The dataset will be downloaded to `data/raw/`.

## Project structure

The directory structure of the project looks like this:
```txt
├── .github/                  # Github actions and dependabot
│   ├── dependabot.yaml
│   └── workflows/
│       └── tests.yaml
├── configs/                  # Configuration files
├── data/                     # Data directory
│   ├── processed
│   └── raw
├── dockerfiles/              # Dockerfiles
│   ├── api.Dockerfile
│   └── train.Dockerfile
├── docs/                     # Documentation
│   ├── mkdocs.yml
│   └── source/
│       └── index.md
├── models/                   # Trained models
├── notebooks/                # Jupyter notebooks
├── reports/                  # Reports
│   └── figures/
├── src/                      # Source code
│   ├── project_name/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── api.py
│   │   ├── data.py
│   │   ├── evaluate.py
│   │   ├── models.py
│   │   ├── train.py
│   │   └── visualize.py
└── tests/                    # Tests
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── test_api.py
│   ├── test_data.py
│   └── test_model.py
├── .gitignore
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml
├── LICENSE
├── pyproject.toml            # Python project file
├── README.md                 # Project README
├── requirements.txt          # Project requirements
├── requirements_dev.txt      # Development requirements
└── tasks.py                  # Project tasks
```


Created using [mlops_template](https://github.com/SkafteNicki/mlops_template),
a [cookiecutter template](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter) for getting
started with Machine Learning Operations (MLOps).
